\documentclass{article}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{mathtools}
\title{Knowledge diffusion in complex multilayered systems}
\author{Sasha Piccione aka Sashimi}
\usepackage{amsthm}
\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\usepackage{hanging}
\usepackage{blindtext}
\usepackage[a4paper, total={6in, 8in}]{geometry}
\usepackage{fancyhdr}
\pagestyle{fancy}
\fancyhf{}
\rhead{Vertically Spanning Simmelian Ties}
\rfoot{\thepage}

\begin{document}
	\maketitle
	\tableofcontents
	\addcontentsline{toc}{section}
	\newpage
	\section{Introduction}
	\bigskip
	
	
	
	We’re slowly moving toward the “Knowledge Economy” which is generally considered as an economic system that heavily relies on knowledge for the creation of profit and value (Powell and Snellman, 2004). Understanding how knowledge can be transferred, acquired and absorbed, thus, appears to be of crucial importance for different types of subjects.
	
	There are different streams of research that study and analyze the dynamics of communication and, in particular, of knowledge transfer between subjects or groups (Mitton et al. 2007; Watson and Hewett, 2006).
	
	One important stream of studies that tried discerning the dynamics of knowledge transfer, which can be defined as the moving and incorporation of knowledge (Hansen, 1999), belongs to Social Network Studies. For instance, many researchers in this field tried to understand how specific structural characteristics of a network could favor or impede the acquisition of knowledge by one subject (e.g. Granovetter, 1973; Burt, 1992; Krackhardt 1998; Wang, 2016), the way in which knowledge is transferred within a group (Tasselli and Caimo, 2019), the transfer of knowledge across different groups (Tortoriello et al., 2012), the ability to absorb the knowledge acquired (Tortoriello and Krackhardt 2010; Lissoni, 2001) and to exploit it by replicating it (Chen et al., 2014; Wang et al. 2020). XXXXXXXXXparlare di information oltre che di knowledge. trovare un modo per passare da knowledge a information.
	
	But also the differences between the types of network considered in different studies play a role in the causation of the abovementioned divergences. As a matter of fact, are we considering a “friendship” network (Gibbons, 2004)? Or are we considering an advice network? Additionally, it is pretty complex to define and assess the degree of friendship between two subjects (see Krackhardt 1987; Krackhardt and Brass, 1994) or even the general intensity of the link.
	
	Having this been said, we are of the opinion that the stream of literature that analyses social networks with the aim of understanding how knowledge is transferred, acquired and absorbed throughout the network might be overlooking some additional aspects that are related to the social environment. Even though knowledge transfer has to be seen as a process that is strongly embedded in a socio-cultural context (Giuliani, 2007), the extant literature rarely tackled such aspect.
	
	One interesting aspect that we consider worth studying is the effect that specific structural characteristics can have on the vertical communication and transfer of knowledge. By vertical communication and transfer of knowledge we intend the communication and the transfer between one employee and its supervisor (or subordinate) (see Simpson, 1959). There are cases, that can be defined as "Cross Cutting" (Bartels et al. 2010), in which such communication or transfer happens between two subjects that are not directly connected by the chain of command (meaning that between them there is one or more persons between them). 
	
	In this paper our aim is to provide a tool that might allow to address such type of issue. Better put, this paper proposes an index that allows to compare two or more companies and to assess whether one is more vertically connected to the other and, thus, understand whether there are aspects of the social context that can be the cause of a higher verticality.
	
	n particular, we found a gap in the research regarding vertical (top-down or bottom-up) transfer of knowledge. Focusing on such a specific knowledge transfer directionXXXXX appears to be relevant if we take into consideration that such type of communication and knowledge transfer has to take into consideration the difficulties and issues of trust between the two social parties (superiors and subordinates)  (Jirjhan and Pfeifer, 2009; Bramucci and Zanfei, 2015). 
	
	
	XXXXXADATTARE QUISOTTOXXXXXX
	The remainder of the paper is structured as follows. In the first chapter we will further explore the main divergencies in the literature regarding knowledge transfer and Social Network characteristics. After that, we will focus our attention on the studies regarding Simmelian ties and, in particular, on Simmelian ties belonging to diverse knowledge cliques (Tortoriello et al., 2015). In due course, we will propose our model and provide a detailed description of the methodology followed in order to test it and to evaluate it.
	Finally, some considerations and implications for future research are drawn.
	
	
	\newpage
	\section{Literature Review}
	
	
	
	When it comes to study the role of networks in the transfer of knowledge and information, there are some specific aspects regarding the characteristics of the overall network that are considered to facilitate or hinder the transfer of knowledge.
	Sparse networks are considered to be reaching areas possessing diverse knowledge (Rowley et al., 2000XXXref) and to be  facing less constraints caused by the “prevailing cognitive scheme” (Wang et al., 2014 p.486) when it comes to explore new knowledge. On the contrary, dense networks promote trust and cooperation among its members (Coleman, 1988) due to reputation effects (Kreps, 1990).
	The studies that focus on the Ego subject, either analyze her personal qualities or her position within the network. Haas (2015) has pointed the presence of three “types” of individuals that appear to be particularly relevant when it comes to knowledge transfer: knowledge brokers, gate-keepers and boundary spanners. Brokers are considered to be subjects that find themselves to be bridging to otherwise disconnected groups of people and that can, thus, exploit the advantage caused by such condition (Burt 1992; 2007). On the other side, the advantage that gate-keepers enjoy is in relation with the company or the organization they operate for (Haas, 2015XXXXcheck). Gate-keepers are generally positioned at the borders of the network of the organization they belong to (Cohen and Levinthal, 1990) and their main duty is to translate knowledge in order to make it available and usable by the other subject of the organization. Gate keepers favor the combination of external knowledge with internal knowledge thanks to their ability to understand and translate such type of knowledge (Morrison, 2008).
	Finally, boundary spanners (Tushman, 1977) are those subjects that are “capable of translating contrasting coding schemes […] between the work unit and external information areas” (p. 591). Friedman and Podolny (1992), provide an even broader definition, talking about a “central role in intergroup relations” (p. 28).
	It is relevant to notice how all the typologies described above share two characteristics, i.e., the ability of the focal subject to translate knowledge (Burt et al., 2013) and the fact that at least on of their connections crosses the border between one or more groups (XXXXXref forse haas, 2015). It is, therefore, the position of the link connecting the “internal” with the “external” that stands out and that assumes considerable importance. However, the mere presence of a connection between two generic persons does not guarantee the transfer of knowledge and information; there are, in fact, different types of ties connecting two subjects.
	As a matter of fact, when it comes to knowledge transfer, tie strength is one of the characteristics that is generally studied (Gargiulo et al., 2009; Friedkin, 1982; Hansen, 1999). In the literature, ties’ strength is considered as “the (probably linear) combination of the amount of time, the emotional intensity, the intimacy (mutual confiding), and the reciprocal services which characterize the tie” (Granovetter, 1973: p. 1361). The two typologies of tie (strong or weak) are better suited for the transfer of two different sets of knowledge; strong ties are better suited for the transfer of uncodified (Morrison, 2008; Reagans and McEvily, 2003), implicit (Fritsch and Kauffeld-Monz, 2010) and non-diversified knowledge (Gargiulo, 2009) while weak ties enable the acquisition and the transfer of diversified (Rodan and Galunic, 2004) and codified knowledge (XXXXX). However, such distinction is not categorical. In fact, strong ties can also be used to transfer codified knowledge (Reagans and McEvily, 2003) even though it might be costly (Hansen, 2002). 
	As discussed earlier, part of knowledge brokers’ advantage depends on the diversity of the knowledge that circulates in the groups that she connects (Burt, 1992; 2007). One aspect that should be considered is the accessibility of such sets of knowledge. More precisely, the clustering and cohesiveness of one group represents and obstacle for knowledge transfer between workers from different units (Krackhardt and Stern, 1988). The more two units are separated, the more distant and untranslatable the knowledge possessed by each unit is (Lissoni, 2001; Morrison, 2008), also for a potential broker (see Burt, 2015). 
	VEDERECOMECOLLEGARELEDUEPARTIXXXX
	Cliques are subgroups of a network that are composed by members that are all connected to each other (Solorzano et al., 2019; XXXXaltre ref). 
	There’s a relevant branch of the research that focuses on cliques composed by three subjects, i.e., triads (Krackhardt, 1999; Kilduff and Lee, 2020).
	Triads are particularly interesting due to the psycho-social dynamics that come into play and that affect each relationship. As a matter of fact, such type of relationships are called “Simmelian ties” (Simmel, 1950; see Krackhardt, 1992). A Simmelian tie is a tie between two subjects who have a third relationship in common, i.e. a Simmelian tie is a tie within a triad (Krackhardt, 1992).
	There are three main aspects that differentiate Simmelian ties from other dyads (Solorzano et al., 2019).
	The first group of elements regards the reciprocity, the symmetry and the clearance that characterize the triad (Simmel, 1950); all subjects in the triad know each other and everyone is aware of it (Krackhardt, 1992). 
	Secondly, since everyone knows each other, when two subjects are interacting, the third party behaves as an indirect controlling dispositive (Krackhardt, 1998). Better put, the third party acts as a counterbalance to potential power imbalances, even though she doesn’t actively intervene (Solorzano et al., 2019; Krackhardt, 1999). In other words, subjects in a triad - that are, thus, connected through Simmelian ties - do not have the same bargaining power that they would have in a simple dyad (Krackhardt, 1998). Solorzano et al. (2019) argued that triads best express the necessary social normative power that prevents one of the subjects to behave in an “unregulated” way.
	Finally, the presence of a third subject permits the triad to be more unsusceptible to external influence (Solorzano et al. 2019). Strictly linked to the ones before, this characteristic prevents single subjects to be influenced by external subjects as it would result in a misconduct (depending on the rules of the triad under discussion).
	XXXXXcollegare meglio
	By increasing the stability of the relationships within the triads, favor the development of a “common language and shared understanding among the parties involved” (Tortoriello and Krackhardt, 2010: 168). Additionally, if a triad or a clique is composed by members that are distant (not only spatially), the relationships between such members allow the transfer of diverse knowledge (Tortoriello and Krackhardt, 2010) and are positively correlated with innovative productivity (Solorzano et al. 2019). Such positive correlation is caused by on the one hand, the strength of the tie that links two person that are part of the same clique or triad and, on the other hand, the distance between them. Structural arrangements having these characteristics have been defined by Tortoriello and colleagues (2015) as “diverse knowledge cliques”. 
	
	\subsection{Inter-unit Simmelian ties}
	Earlier in the paper we briefly mentioned the role that strong or weak ties play in the transfer of knowledge with a particular emphasis regarding the characteristic of the different types of knowledge that strong or weak ties can better transfer. One of the main issues that subjects might face when trying to transfer or absorb knowledge coming from distant subjects in the network is the fact that it can be uncodified and, thus, hard to translate, replicate or absorb (Chen et al. 2014). 
	Tortoriello and Krackhardt (2010) wanted to see whether Simmelian ties – by virtue of their assumed strength – could not just facilitate the transfer of tacit, complex and uncodified knowledge but whether, in case they connected subjects situated in different working units of a company, they could facilitate the transfer of distant and diverse knowledge. 
	As a matter of fact, Tortoriello and Krackhardt (2010) take into consideration two types of networks representing the same group: the formal network (formal organization of the company) and the informal network (Krackhardt and Hanson, 1993). Taking into consideration both structures enriches the comprehension of the dynamics that come into play in the knowledge transfer process. 
	Nevertheless, Tortoriello and Krackhardt’s (2010) research is limited to inter-unit analysis and, thus, acknowledges the potential discrepancies that might exist between the formal and the informal structure of a company without taking into consideration the broader social aspects to which such discrepancies might be linked in a causational way. 
	We propose to consider the distance within subjects in the network. In particular, one aspect that we consider relevant to analyze would be the role that Simmelian ties might play in the vertical transfer of knowledge within a company, which is the transfer of knowledge between two subjects that belong to different hierarchical levels in the organizational structure. More specifically, we want to understand whether the presence of Simmelian ties between subjects that occupy vertically differentiated position within a company facilitate the transfer of knowledge between such subjects.SXXXXXXinserirequichesemplifichiamo. In this paper we want to propose and test different models have been derived from the Bass model (refXXXXX), the DeGroot model (XXXXXrefs) and from contagion models (XXXXX). The aim is twofold. On the one hand we intend to understand how Vertically spanning simmelian ties might facilitate or hinder the transfer of information throughout a network and, on the other hand, to consequently further the discussion regarding the modelling of information transfer within a network.
	In the following chapter we will provide a description of the way in which we built our model.
	bisogna snellire sopra e chiarire il passaggio da trasferimento di conoscenza a info, poi qualcosa sui modelli assenova. guardare information episode yue and gilly1, cross 2004
	
	\subsection{Diffusion models}
	In the previous sections we explored the literature that tried to understand the impact that different structural characteristics have on the diffusion of knowledge within a group. At the same time, however, we can try to understand such process by simplifying the knowledge transfer process by considering the transfer of information as theXXXX of the knowledge transfer process (Yue and GillyXXXX; Cross, 2004). Studying how information is transferred simplifies the modelling process of the transfer of knowledge. Different streams of literature have, in fact, modelled the transfer of information in order to model and explain different phenomena. For instance, on of the most important fieldXXXX is the one that tries to understand how an idea or an information is transferred throughout a group given specific characteristics (XXXXXref). There are two main categories of diffusion models and the main differences regard the baseline assumption and the applicability of the model. As a matter of fact, the first category, that is represented by aggregated models XXXXrref, assumes the homogeneity of the analyzed population (Tanny and Derzko, 1988) and generally proposes models that are derived from the Bass (1969) model. The Bass model was initially developed to study the adoption rate of a generic innovation by consumers. As we will see more in details, the models derived by the Bass ones also assume that the each subject within the population have two sources of information. The first one is external and is composed by mass media and advertisement; the second one is considered the internal one and represents the interpersonal communication between the subjects within the population (Bohlman et al. 2010). Generally, the first one is considered to be less relevant but necessary for the second one (Goldenberg et al. 2002). The advantage of such model laysXXX on the fact that it is easy applicable also to considerably large populations (Bohlman et al. 2010XXXcheck) even though it might be excessively simplistic and inaccurate (Chatterjee and Eliashberg, 1990). 
	Another group of diffusion models is composed by those studies that tried to take into consideration the heterogeneity of the subjects and of their relations with other subjects within the population. Researches in this field have proposed agent based models (ABM) that were able to take into account microlevel peculiaritiesXXXXref. On the one hand, AB models allow the relaxation of some aggregation examples; on the other hand, they entail worthwhile costs at the computational level (Rahmandad and Sterman, 2008). Within this group, researches have proposed models that were derived from contagion models (Pastor-Satorras et al. 2015; Strang and Soule, 1998) but also DeGroot models (Assenova, 2018).
	Each of the above-mentioned models has its own advantages and drawbacks and is, reasonably, more or less suitable depending on the research question that we're trying to answer to XXXxreflitreviewcazzo. Having this been said, in this paper we want to explore each of the main models here listed and try to understand which one is better suited for our own research question.
	The remainder of the paper is structured as follows. We first propose a formalization of the object of analysis, \emph{i.e.}, Vertically Spanning Simmelian ties. After that, we will explore each of the models and try to tailor them according to our research questions (XXXassicurarsi che siano ben stated). For each model, simulations and sensitivity analysis will be carried out and, finally, results will be discussed.
	Vedere altro in Kiesling et al. 2012XXXX
	
	\newpage
	\section{The Model}
	Spiegare quello che faremo.
	descrizione dei network
	misurazione e giustificazione di phi
	modelli
	
	\subsection{The Bass Model}
	Earlier we discussed about aggregate models and pointed to the Bass model as the founding and most relevant one. Even though the model is has different drawbacks in terms of predictive capability (Van den Bulte and Lilien, 1997), the model has been used and adapted without particular changes to its main characteristics (Mahajan et al., 1990).
	The Bass model characterizes the diffusion of an information, an idea or an innovation throught two main sources of influence: one external, such as advertisement, and one internal, represented by the word of mouth and the interpersonal relationships(XXXXX). For instance, it is relevant to notice that the firs factor does not depend on the amount or ratio of previous adopters as does the second source (Goldenberg et al., 2000). Therefore, the probability $f(t)$ of an individual - that has not been "infected" - at time $t$ to be "infected" or to adopt a new innovation described as follows:
	
	\begin{equation} \label{eqn}
		\dfrac{f(t)}{1-F(t)}=p+qF(t)

